The distribution of opinions among people constantly evolves over time. This can be seen, for example, from the American National Election Studies (ANES) database, which contains results of surveys on public opinions that have been conducted regularly since 1948. While the statistics of the opinions can be determined from this longitudinal dataset, the laws that govern opinion spread and the driving forces of opinion change are largely unknown. In order to shed light on some of these questions, we built a class of discrete models for age-structured opinion dynamics, which depends on the interaction matrices among different age groups and the probability of people to change their opinion state, based on the attractiveness of the  opinions. We fit different attractiveness models to the ANES survey data, focusing on 15 yes-or-no questions and 22 ``thermometer" questions in the database. Interestingly, the most powerful models for a large majority of questions  either are based  on an age-dependent opinion attractiveness or contain age-dependence as a major component. Such dependencies  reflect cohort (internal) effects, as opposed to time-dependent attractiveness, which would reflect period (external) forces. Further, we found that in all the questions investigated, there is a significant positive correlation between age and the polarization of opinions, with at least one polarizing transition rate—from a neutral opinion to either a positive or negative stance—increasing with age. This methodology provides a quantitative way to uncover the mechanisms underlying decadal trends in opinion dynamics.
